Q1
Find the titles of all movies directed by Steven Spielberg.

select title from Movie
where director = 'Steven Spielberg'

Q2
Find all years that have a movie that received a rating of 4 or 5, and sort them in increasing order.

select year 
from Movie
where mID in (select mID from Rating where stars='4' or stars='5')
order by year

Q3
Find the titles of all movies that have no ratings.

select title 
from Movie
where mID not in (select mID from Rating)

Q4
Some reviewers didn't provide a date with their rating. Find the names of all reviewers who have ratings with a NULL value for the date.

select name 
from Reviewer
where rID in (select rID from Rating where ratingDate is null)

Q5
Write a query to return the ratings data in a more readable format: reviewer name, movie title, stars, and ratingDate. 
Also, sort the data, first by reviewer name, then by movie title, and lastly by number of stars.

select name, title, stars, ratingDate
from Reviewer, Movie, Rating 
where Rating.rID=Reviewer.rID and Rating.mID=Movie.mID
order by name, title, stars

Q6
For all cases where the same reviewer rated the same movie twice and gave it a higher rating the second time, return the reviewer's name and the title of the movie.

select Reviewer.name, Movie.title
from Rating R1, Reviewer, Movie
where R1.rID=Reviewer.rID and R1.mID=Movie.mID and exists (select * from Rating R2
			 where R1.rID=R2.rID and R1.mID=R2.mID and R2.stars > R1.stars and R2.ratingDate>R1.ratingDate)
			 
Q7
For each movie that has at least one rating, find the highest number of stars that movie received. Return the movie title and number of stars. Sort by movie title.

select DISTINCT title, stars
from Movie
INNER join Rating on Movie.mid=Rating.mid
group by title
having max (stars)

Q8
For each movie, return the title and the 'rating spread', that is, the difference between highest and lowest ratings given to that movie. 
Sort by rating spread from highest to lowest, then by movie title.

select title, max(stars)-min(stars) as spread
from Movie
INNER join Rating on Movie.mid=Rating.mid
GROUP BY title
order by spread desc, title

Q9
Find the difference between the average rating of movies released before 1980 and the average rating of movies released after 1980. 
(Make sure to calculate the average rating for each movie, then the average of those averages for movies before 1980 and movies after. 
Don't just calculate the overall average rating before and after 1980.)

select avg(before1980.B)-avg(after1980.C)
from (select title, avg(stars) as B
from Movie
INNER join Rating on Movie.mid=Rating.mid
GROUP BY year
HAVING year<1980) as before1980,
(select title, avg(stars) as C
from Movie
INNER join Rating on Movie.mid=Rating.mid
GROUP BY year
HAVING year>1980) as after1980;
       
